## cs147-project
This document contains details to the back-end implementation and details. Use this as a reference for adding styling, along with potential component revisions that may work. For any changes, I recommend working on separate branches to ensure that we have at least one functioning main branch at all times.


## General
The current implementation allows users to switch between profiles for demo purposes (which can be done by exporting a different user in the consts/users.js file). Implemented features include:

# Home
* Viewing user profile.
* Viewing user garden.
* Viewing garden flowers.

# Events
* Sorting and finding events.
* Creating and approving events.
* Managing user events.
* RSVP & Cancelling events.
* Deleting events.

# Social
* Adding users as friends.
* Creating a chat with users.
* Chatting with individuals / groups.
* Joining & leaving groups.
* Viewing group posts / members.
* Viewing other user profiles.
* Viewing other user's groups.


## Styling
Specific non-native components used in the implementation include:
* react-native-modal / https://github.com/react-native-modal/react-native-modal <- for modal
* react-native-modal-datetime-picker / https://github.com/mmazzarolo/react-native-modal-datetime-picker <- for datetime picker.
* react-native-gifted-chat / https://github.com/FaridSafi/react-native-gifted-chat <- for chat functionality
* react-native-picker-select / https://github.com/lawnstarter/react-native-picker-select <- for multiselect dropdowns.
* react-native-element-dropdown / https://github.com/hoaphantn7604/react-native-element-dropdown <- for dropdown
Additional components can be found at the link below. Feel free to install & use as appropriate:
https://reactnative.directory/?search=message&expo=true


## Hard-Coding Data
This project uses Firebase as a store for app data, to simplify back-end functionality. Most data can be directly inputted to our database with either in-code changes or in-app changes. A list of specific data inputs, and recommended approaches to inserting can be found below:
* User Profiles — copy the sample profile in the users.js file as a new object NEWUSERNAME, make the appropriate changes, then change the export default to NEWUSERNAME. App.js contains user and group consistency checks that will automatically generate the new user, which you can validate for yourself on the firebase db.
* Events – events are best generated through the in-app Create Event flow. Data can be easily copied over and is automatically formatted and processed, with the appropriate checks for reviewer profiles to approve / reject.
* Posts – located within the appropriate group, must be manually coded, and I really don't want to code a create post feature in lmao.
* Chats – one-on-one DM chats can be generated by using the appropriate profile (configured through consts/users.js), navigating to another user's profile (through groups) and clicking chat. All appropriate data is generated and automatically populated into the firebase db. Group chats, however, must be manually created (populating all the document fields, no need to populate a messages collection)
* Flowers – manually coded through the DB, with no plans to add a generate flower workflow. This is assumed to be done by organizers, and can be left out of our prototype.
* Groups / Interests – these are best left blank, as we don't need to have too many categories, so long as the ones we do have are sufficiently populated.
